patty come and drink some tea with me I
can't mom I'm too excited
I'm leaving for Taiwan today I know
but have some tea sit down and relax
okay okay let me pour the tea for you
I can't do this again for three months
are you sad mom yes my little girl is
leaving mom I'm not little I'm 17 years
old
patty I have something for you a journal
uh-huh
Thanks write about all your Taiwan other
ventures okay thanks mom you are staying
with your dad's brother and his family
but please go see my sister and her
family too okay
explore hollien take a lot of pictures
but be careful I know don't worry mom
okay honey I love you
penny are you listening to us what Oh
drama I'm sorry
I'm thinking about mom I understand your
mom is wonderful my son married the
right girl so Patti what is your
favorite team I like all kinds of team
well which kind do you like best green
red or oolong tea red tea what's that
it's black tea people call it red tea
here intestine here is a menu patty
sorry grandma I can't read Chinese you
can't well you're going to learn to read
some Chinese this summer okay do you
like fruit tea or how about flower tea
flowers in tea yeah like chamomile or
jasmine oh those are flowers I didn't
know can you just choose something for
me good idea Roger you come here often
share something wonderful for patty
there are so many teas on the menu how
can you choose just one you keep coming
back until you try them all and there
are other things on the menu
besides T V Lee do they have coffee no
not at this teahouse but they do have
some food food at a teahouse cool let's
order some food hi Roger
who is this do you have a new girlfriend
she's pretty thank you I'm not Roger's
girlfriend I'm his grandmother I know
mrs. Jones
hi Derrick this is my cousin patty she's
staying with us this summer hello patty
it's nice to meet you
it's nice to meet you too you don't look
like Roger oh well our dads are brothers
but my mom is Chinese she's her Hualien
Derick we're ready to order oh okay
hi i'm derek i am your waiter today what
can I get for you I would like some
oolong tea I would like some green tea
and Patty will have fruit tea
we'd also like some chicken feet and
blood rice cake okay I'll be right back
chicken feet Taiwan really is different
from America here is your tea and food I
have to take a picture I can take the
picture patty you can be in it that will
be more beautiful oh okay wait let's
pour some tea into the cups then let's
hold our cups of guts are you okay I
think so whoo wow that's a hot I haven't
had traditional tea like this for years
we usually use tea bags in America are
you sure you didn't burn your fingers
patty
yeah I'm okay look my fingers aren't
even read these little tea cups gets
really hot really fast I remember now
how's your teeth
it's wonderful you should try some of
mine too okay ouch
Derek you burned me what
no I didn't Jim yes you did you spilled
a pot of tea on me look at my clothes
they're all wet so is my arm I'm really
sorry
how did that happen I didn't touch your
teapot yes you did you are a terrible
server you should be fired fired no I
really need this job
excuse me I'm sure it was just an
accident
how do you know did you see it happen
well no did anyone here see what
happened that's why I thought Derek
wouldn't spill hot tea on you on purpose
well he did I am going to talk to your
boss loud bang loud bang excuse me but
Jim is lying dear Journal I'm having
Taiwan adventures already grandma and
Roger took me to a traditional tea house
yesterday
the building was beautiful and the tea
was delicious
I liked drinking tea made from tea
leaves instead of tea bags I also liked
the blood rice cake it was yummy grandma
told me about other tea houses she has
been to she has lived in Taiwan for 50
years
so she's been to a lot of tea houses a
[Music]
really exciting thing happened at the
tea house a customer Jim said that
Derrick our server spilled hot tea on
him and burned him but Jim didn't act
like he was in pain also if Jim's skin
were burned it should be red and hot his
arm was wet but not red so I knew he
lied then we checked Jim's table his pot
of tea was almost full and we found a
half empty water bottle Jim must have
poured the water on himself we found out
that Jim is jealous of Derek Jim wanted
Derek's job but the boss hired Derek
instead of Jim well I'm going to bed
it's only 8 o'clock but jet lag is
making me so tired the Taiwan traveler
patty
here we are this is the entrance to
taroko gorge
what a pretty gate let's take some
pictures okay everyone stand over there
great now let's see the gorge okay get
in the car
tell me more about the gorge what can we
do here we can do lots of things we can
hike yes we can hike to some waterfalls
okay there are some easy trails and some
hard trails let's hike on the easy
trails one trail is not far from here it
goes to the eternal spring shrine can we
hike that trail is it an easy trail sure
let's go
what a beautiful view and this is a
beautiful place it is look at the water
the shrine is over a waterfall that's
cool I like this place it is so peaceful
me too Brian what does taroko mean it
means beautiful in the omni's language
that's a good name for this place dear
Journal today I went to taroko gorge
with Grandma Roger and Brian what a
beautiful place the gorge walls are so
steep the gorge is part of Taiwan's
cross-island highway workers built this
highway in the 1950s hundreds of workers
died building it I saw their names at
the eternal spring shrine taroko is the
largest marble gorge in the world the
road through it is next to the Li Wu
River it's so pretty
I loved looking up at the gorge walls
and then down into the river I really
liked the tunnel of nine turns some
parts of the tunnel are open you can
look down at the river and in some
places the gorge is really narrow the
mountains around here are really
beautiful they are so different from the
mountains at home in Colorado mountains
here are not as high and they have a lot
more trees tonight we are staying in a
hotel in the gorge
tomorrow we'll hike more and visit
another waterfall Brian told me about so
many beautiful places here I want to see
them all good morning Patti did you
sleep well oh yes I'm ready for another
hike which waterfall are we going to see
grandma wants to hike to buy a young
waterfall is that a long hike no but you
begin the hike with a walk through a
tunnel fun where Brian and grandma
they're still eating breakfast brian is
a slow eater
we're here how many mantou did you eat
Brian only four that's what well let's
go okay we'll drive about 300 meters
then we walk through a long tunnel are
there lights in the tunnel no we'll walk
in the dark it will be an adventure
okay don't worry paddy
I brought flashlights
[Music]
what are we going to do now we'll take
another hike are you tired of hiking yet
oh no I love to hike I love mountain
scenery then let's hike the mystery
valley trail the scenery is very pretty
there it's also an easy hike but that
trail is now called
Sokka dong trail oh that's right the
name changed well get in the car we need
to drive to the trailhead
the scenery is pretty here grandma look
at those big striped rocks in the river
I'm hot let's go swimming
no sorry swimming here is too dangerous
on the way back we'll stop at the bridge
of motherly devotion we can go down to
the river there and put our seat in the
water that's a strange name for a bridge
maybe but it's beautiful
Wow
I've seen enough scenery for one day
let's go to the bridge alright but let
me take one more picture everyone stand
right there
[Music]
what does that girl want she looks upset
she's yelling for help please help me
what's wrong that boy just stole my
camera stop him it's getting away with
my camera I'll get him
what happened I have my camera out I
took some pictures of those big rocks
then I saw that boy coming toward me and
what did he do he pushed me down into
the dirt then he took my camera that's
terrible please get my camera back for
me
we'll try by the way I really like your
pants
Thanks they're nice aren't they mm and
clinging do you hike here often no I
just came here from Taipei the views
here are beautiful he says this is his
camera it's not as my camera who is
telling the truth I know I can't believe
that girl lied to us she thought she
could fool us she fooled me not me she
said she fell in the dirt but her pants
were spotless she was really upset when
you told her that she was but I hope she
learned her lesson me too
now let's go wait in the river and then
have a nice dinner now look at these
examples here
my boyfriend's very tore okay
very very tall my boyfriend's ferry tour
I think I'm quite short hi shorty
that means they I'm not really sure I'm
just a quite short okay I think I'm
quite short he's not really tor about
average not really tour that means not
tor not short about average okay he's
not really tor about average his brother
is pretty short
Britt teaches like three teaches like
quite and really just like very really
or very very tall really tall quite
short pretty short
okay his brother is pretty short
she's about 170 centimeters tor okay you
can use centimeters here
she's about 170 centimeters torque I
guess if you don't know you can make a
guess I guess he's about 5 feet 9 inches
usually in Western countries people like
to use feet an inch right I guess he's
about 5 feet 9 inches again my brother
sorry my boyfriend's ferry tour I think
I'm quite short
he's not very tor sorry he's not really
tor about average his brother is pretty
short
she's about 170 centimeters tor I guess
he's about 5 feet 9 inches now let's go
to the example I have 4 kitchens here
how are you 180 centimeters tor like you
look at a person and then you guess I
may be like
he is 180 centimeters and then you can
ask him are you 180 centimeters tour am
i right okay
how tall are you like I want to know
like your measurement how tall are you
now I want to know your height are you
shorter than your sister okay late
you're your sister is taller than you
right or you are shorter than your
sister right
are you shorter than your sister who is
the tallest in your family okay a lot of
people but who is the tallest who is the
tallest in your family now let's see the
answers for number one are you 180
centimeters tall yes I am yes right or
no I'm not and then you can say your
height
I'm 175 centimeters tall yes I am no I'm
not I'm 175 centimeters tour again are
you 180 centimeters tour yes I am or no
I'm not
I'm 175 centimeters tour number two how
tall are you I'm about six feet if you
are not sure you can say I'm about six
feet okay
are you shorter than your sister if that
is true you say yes I am or or no we're
about the same height that means like
for example like I'm six feet and she's
six feet too so we are about the same
height or we are at the same height okay
now we are about at the same height so
again are you shorter than your sister
yes I am or no we're about the same
height who is their tallest in your
family I think that is the tallest in my
family maybe your dad your sister your
brother anyone okay I think
is the tallest in my family but if you
are sure about that you will say
definitely that is the toilets in my
family okay but if you are not sure you
can say I think or I guess I think that
is the top that is the tallest in my
family